When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work
local?

When my code base looks good enough with a working version I can use a remote 
repository. When I want to share my code base with other contributors who could 
add more features to it, I can use a remote repository to share my code base 
with them and vice versa.




Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git 
automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?

Using Git to stay up-to-date by pulling changes automatically is a good idea
but it won't be preferred in all cases. 

-> If suppose myself and another contributor 
were making changes to the same file and he pushed in changes to the remote
before I do, it'll result in 'merge conflict' when git automatically try to pull
changes. 

-> If suppose the 'master' branch in remote repository has introduced a bug due 
to a recent commit by some other contributor, and I were in the middle of 
something (say adding a very small feature), then automatic pull introduces bug
in my code as well.



Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use 
one instead of another?

Branches: Operates on a single repository which has it's own commit history 
different from the 'master' (again master is branch). 

Use 'branch' when you try to experiment with your product by adding a new 
feature and you are not sure whether it works as long as the feature is 
bounded to that single repository.

Clones: Operates on repositories which is used to copy a repository from one
place to another (say from remote machine to local machine or from one location 
to another within a local machine)

Use 'clone' when you want to copy an entire remote repository from Github to 
your local machine or when you want to have a copy of your local repository in 
some other location

Forks: Operates on repositories but restricted to Github which is similar to 
clone. Used to make a copy of someone else's remote repository into your remote
repository.

Use 'fork' when you want to copy someone else's remote repository on Github 
directly into your own remote repository.